![smile](https://github.com/shadowchaser04/happyhardcore/blob/master/Pictures/face.png)

# The structure of happy hardcore

## B.P.M and D.A.W's

All D.A.W's (digital audio workstation)s use a grid. The grid is a system that
enables the user to place instrument parts or scenes at a particular point in
the track time. To do this there is a count of beats per minute. The BPM is
then divided in to quadrants (4s) that comprise the grid. Each quadrant
contains 4 bars. 1 bar also has 4 measures. Happy hardcore will usually contain
4 beats per bar. One beat at the start of each measure.

## Happy hardcore

Happy Hardcore music has a consistent structure. It evolves to cycles of 8, 16,
or 32 bars. Most Genre will have a consistent structure that is recognised as that
particular style.

`Intro and Verse (32-64 bars) Breakdown (16-32 bars) Drop and Verse (32-64 bars) Breakdown (8-16 bars) Outro (16-32)`

![hardcore](https://github.com/shadowchaser04/happyhardcore/blob/master/Pictures/happy-hardcore-blueprint.png)

Here is a snapshot of some well know tracks

![hardcore](https://github.com/shadowchaser04/happyhardcore/blob/master/Pictures/track-structure.png)

## Hip Hop

`Intro (8-16) Chorus (8-16 bars) Verse (16-32 bars) Chorus (8-16) Verse (8-16) Chorus (8-16) Outro (8-16)`

![hiphop](https://github.com/shadowchaser04/happyhardcore/blob/master/Pictures/hiphop-blueprint.png)

## Drums

![main](https://github.com/shadowchaser04/happyhardcore/blob/master/Pictures/beat-and-bass.png)

## (1) Kick, 4 on the floor

Drums are repetitive and tight (No swing). One kick is placed on each of the 4 measures of 1 bar.

`4 bars = 16 kicks`

## (2) Snare

The snare is placed on each of the 2nd and 4th measure of the bar.

`4 bars = 8 snares`

## (3) Ride

One ride is placed on each of the measures of the bar. The volume is adjusted
so the ride sits within the mix.

`4 bars = 16 rides`

## (4) Open Hat

The open hat should be placed on the 1.1.3, 1.2.3, 1.3.3 and 1.4.3 of the bar.
There are 4 open hats to a bar.

`4 bars = 16 open hats`

## (5) Clap

The clap can be used to add variation to the pattern. Typified by following the
snare with variation at the end of 4 or 8 bars. The clap can also be added to
the kick pattern by reducing the volume of those claps.

## (6) Closed Hat

The closed hat is placed 2 hats to 1 measure of the bar. The pattern is varied
at the end of 4 or 8 bars. And can be doubled to quicken the pace using volume
adjustment to create a variation on every other hat.

`4 bars = 32 closed hats`

## Crash

The crash is used to add emphasis to parts of the track. Typical there will be
crashes on the start of every 16 bars.

## (7) Bass

The happy hardcore bass will usually be played in 1/8th notes. In-between each
measure of the bar (off-beat). 1.1.3, 1.2.3, 1.3.3, 1.4.3. This is the most
common way to play but by no means the only.

The bass Will follow the chord progression of the acapella. Playing the root
note of the chords. Example: if the chords are c,d,e,f the bass will play
c,d,e,f

The chords to most popular music can be found in sheet music or chord finder
sites that show the lyrics with the chord changes.

`4 bars = 16 notes`

## Body of music

The musical body does have consistent qualities that give happyhardcore its
sound. In this case an additional Reese bass playing 8th notes and a saw with
its filter brought down some what. Muting some of the higher frequencies and
creating a plucky sound also playing full 8th notes create a good place to
start.

![hardcore](https://github.com/shadowchaser04/happyhardcore/blob/master/Pictures/body-music.png)
